(orchestra playing patriotic,
Romantic Russian-themed music)
(music fades)
(Tchaikovsky's
"Serenade for Strings" playing)
♪ ♪
-Hi. Nice to meet you.
-Hello, Mr. President.
How are you today?
Yeah?
I'm... tired today,
a little bit.
I didn't sleep well.
(translating)
-Yeah, but your
muscles hurt.
-(Putin chuckles)
I took a nice walk.
Stone: I took a nice walk
with my wife in the park.
And I was thinking about Sochi
in the fourth century BC,
what it must have been
like here.
Is that your--
Is that his home?
(Putin speaks)
Stone:
It's pretty.
Pretty, peaceful here.
Do you want to talk out here?
I mean, uh, tell him
I'm fine either way.
Can we start?
Should we go in that way?
-Yeah. All right.
-Just, you know. Let's...
This was a rehearsal
out here.
(translating)
♪ ♪
I wanted to go over
the Ukraine crisis.
We've had this discussion
before on my first visit,
on the terrorists.
I wanted to go over it,
just to be really clear,
because this is
very important to the, uh...
to people who
will be watching this show.
(translating)
(translator speaking)
(Putin continuing)
Newsman: Both EU
and Ukrainian officials
said on Thursday,
the suspension of talks
on closer ties could be revived
after the two-day meeting,
but officials said the deal
was off the table for now.
Stone:
From November
to February 20th,
2013 into 14, there was
quite a bit of protest.
I remember him vividly
on television saying it was
a coup in slow motion.
It was pretty evident,
transparent to the Russians.
The Ukraine to us was not--
we were not paying attention.
No... Yeah.
Of course.
(translator speaking)
♪ ♪
Newsman: For weeks,
this European capital has been
the scene of a violent uprising.
(gunfire)
Today, the bloodiest day yet.
Newswoman: The protesters
are pushing up towards
the government district,
armed here
with Molotov cocktails,
but we saw handguns
and shotguns too.
Newsman 2:
There is absolutely no doubt
that snipers are working here.
I've counted ten bodies.
♪ ♪
Newswoman:
There are casualties
on both sides.
(shouting in Ukrainian)
Well, she just said
that there are six
dead people up there.
Not just injured, dead.
They say they've been hit
by snipers.
Stone:
Fourteen policemen dead
and 43 wounded?
During the Maidan Massacre,
did you get any intelligence
of what was going on?
It's the strangest massacre
because of the number
of casualties of policemen
and the civilians
who were killed indicates--
and the policemen
not firing back,
they were retreating
and called back by Yanukovych.
During that, it seems like
there was this--
a sniper force
that was definitely aiming
at the policemen
and the civilians to create
the chaos necessary
for the takeover.
(sighs)
Well, who were
these snipers?
(Putin speaking)
Have you heard any reports
about the training that was
going on in other cities
of battalion,
of, uh, certain
Right-party Sectors?
Hardened, uh, people
of the right?
Hundred-man units came
to the city, I am told
in the days before
the, uh, the Maidan.
(translator speaking)
It was characterized
in the US press
as if Yanukovych
abandoned Kiev.
(translator speaking)
Newswoman: Ukraine's parliament
has voted for the new speaker
of the assembly
to become interim president.
Oleksandr Turchynov called
on lawmakers
to form an interim government
by Tuesday.
These latest developments
follow the dismissal
of president Viktor Yanukovych
on Saturday.
(translator speaking)
I'd like to ask is,
Mr. Obama during this period,
what kind of communications
did you have with him?
Obviously,
you didn't agree.
(translating)
Are you still talking
to him?
Would you say relations,
uh, the dialogue is cordial?
Do they see each other visually
when they talk?
Yes. May I-- So this is
just a trivial question,
I've always been curious.
Do they call each other
Vladimir and Barack?
Or do they call--
First name?
That's great.
Can we talk about
outside influences
in this Ukraine story now?
We know the about the NGOs
that were operating in Ukraine.
We know that Victoria Nuland,
the undersecretary of state
for Eastern Europe,
was very active supporting
change in government.
Good to see you.
We're here from America.
Would you like some bread?
Please, take something. Please.
Nuland:
We've invested
over five billion dollars
to assist Ukraine in these
and other goals
that will ensure
a secure and prosperous
and democratic Ukraine.
Stone: We know that
Senator John McCain,
visited and was seen at rallies
with extremist leaders,
including some neo-Nazis.
This is about the future
you want for your country.
you deserve.
Stone:
We know that America
and the National Endowment
for Democracy,
which is a, uh, also
a very influential pr--
a non-profit, private NGO,
was very active,
very active here.
Carl Gershman,
who was the president of it,
made very strong speeches,
uh, he wanted
an independent Ukraine.
And we know
that the Hungarian
billionaire hedge funder,
George Soros was also
very involved in supporting
the groups from here,
in Ukraine.
(chuckles)
In other words,
United States can unite--
can keep a united
pro-American Europe,
and NATO,
with an external enemy
such as Russia.
Joe Biden:
The final assault came
amidst fire and ice,
snipers on rooftops.
The Heavenly Hundred paid
the ultimate price of patriots
the world over.
Their blood and courage
delivering
to the Ukrainian people
a second chance for freedom.
Their sacrifice...
to put it bluntly,
is now your obligation.
Stone:
In hindsight, looking back,
did you make a mistake
by annexing Crimea?
Because it cost you
tremendously.
The sanctions, the whole
East EU turns on Russia, the US.
It becomes big news,
because it's... it's illegal.
It's regarded as illegal
in the international
post-war treaty world.
(chuckles)
(coughs)
(crowd chanting)
(Putin speaking)
But it does raise questions
on whether this vote really
is free and fair,
especially given the heavy
military presence in Crimea
right now. Errol?
(Putin speaking)
More than 95 percent voted
to become part of Russia.
Officials said there was
an unprecedented turnout,
with at least eight
of ten eligible Crimeans
having their say.
Stone:
But economically, as you say,
you're self-sufficient.
They're gone.
Let them have their problems.
It's not gonna destroy
your country.
And at one point, you told me
in our last, uh, meeting that,
I asked you, I said
what about the, you know,
the Russian submarine base
in Crimea at Sevastopol.
He said it wasn't threatened
by the loss of the base.
Even if NATO made
an agreement with Ukraine,
I still don't see
the threat to Russia,
in a new-- with a new,
with the new weaponry.
♪ ♪
Stone: You know, this is
a pretty big place you got here.
Can you show me around?
How do they heat
this place?
No, don't tell me.
Don't tell me. Don't tell me.
(Putin speaking)
Do you get lonely at night,
when you walk the corridors?
(chuckles)
I know you have
an office here,
because I know--
it's hidden away.
I was in it once.
Stone:
It was Stalin's old office.
(Putin speaking)
Stone: Yeah.
Translator: Ten years
of Munich speech.
Stone:
He looks good.
Could've been a movie star.
Stone:
February.
So today's the day
you got into trouble.
You had quite an audience.
Stone: Is this
where you work now?
(Putin speaks)
Stone:
Do you take meetings
in here too?
(Putin speaking)
♪ ♪
-Stone: Sevastopol, you say?
-Putin: Yes, sir.
-That's why you fought for it.
-(Putin chuckles) No.
Stone: So two desks.
How does he use them?
(Putin speaking)
-Stone: That's mine.
-Putin: Yes. Yes.
-Stone:
Ah, that's great.
-Mm-hmm. (chuckles)
Stone:
That's my history book,
cowritten.
(Putin speaking)
Stone: Yeah. Sure.
Endless curiosity.
Wow. Oh,
I've been here, yes.
This is where we had
our first night.
It was our first night.
Remember, Dmitry?
We started there.
♪ ♪
So, three different offices.
Yep.
♪ ♪
Last time we talked
about, uh, surveillance,
mass-surveillance.
I had the impression
you were against it,
and you deplored
the American technique.
And as our Snowden movie
pointed out,
it was selected targeting,
would work best on terrorists.
And since that conversation,
I've been away,
coming back and I--
There is a new law
in Russia that I've heard
that has been signed by you,
what they call--
has been nicknamed
the Big Brother law...
that provides for
mass surveillance techniques.
I'm surprised. Snowden has
condemned them here, in Russia.
He's condemned them.
Right.
(translating)
But, uh, why?
Why are you doing this?
It seems like a dragnet
on all Russian citizens.
Yes.
So, situation-type room.
This is, uh,
commando raids and stuff?
What happened?
(man speaking over computer)
Are those real airplanes
back there?
(Putin speaking)
Stone: Access
to submarines?
So, in conventional
military terms, your budget,
as you said,
the American budget
is 600 billion.
Your annual budget is 66,
according
to the Russian statistics.
Sixty-six.
That's almost a tenth,
uh, twelve percent roughly
of American spending.
The Chinese are
at 215 billion, 215.
Saudi Arabia's at 87,
which leaves Russia
fourth place at 66.
Is this
an accurate figure?
Whoa. Saudi Arabia's spending
more money than you are.
How do you do it?
I mean, you have
quite an army.
I mean, quite
an intelligence economy.
But what's the trick?
I mean, how do you--
You don't have lobbies
that cost a lot of money?
You don't--
No graft, no corruption
in this thing?
The US makes a lot
out of building up.
They keep talking about
its antimissile systems.
Is there a reason to believe
there's been some kind
of breakthrough
in their technology?
Some kind of
first-strike superiority?
But they have a,
they have a plan--
They're doing something.
I feel that they really
are working, that they can
get an advantage
in which your missile silos
would be knocked out
on a US first strike.
And we'd be able to absorb
whatever you had left
to throw at us.
But then we'd warn you
that we're going to be hitting
you again with a second strike,
and that would really wipe out
your cities, your population,
the whole works.
Stone:
In the matter of Syria,
can you describe
what your objective was?
Give us a little history of that
and where you are now?
Who's they? The terrorists.
(Putin speaking)
Stone:
This is the biggest concern?
(Putin speaking)
And, uh, the roads that ISIS
were using to drive
the trucks to, uh,
to Turkey, the oil trucks?
(Putin speaking)
Stone:
Right.
And you confronted Erdogan
with this information, correct?
You were hitting
Turkmen areas,
and you didn't tell him,
uh, why?
(Putin speaking)
Could you have said
in a diplomatic way,
uh, Mr. President, uh,
we have information,
good information
that the oil is coming
into certain places in Turkey,
and we believe that
there are elements
in Turkey on the border,
smugglers that are cooperating
with ISIS
and bringing the oil in,
and we're very concerned
about that?
(laughing)
(translating)
Who from the United States
was in that room?
So two times a day,
tomorrow, uh, today,
you'll give information to NATO
as to when the missions
are in Syria.
To-- Oh, really?
Directly.
And you get
the same information?
To prevent
major catastrophes?
Yeah. This is
a dangerous situation.
Stone:
I know.
So they're illegal.
Any foreign troops
coming to Syria
-without our invitation...
-Man: Mm-hmm.
...or consultation
or permission,
they are invaders.
So we have French airplanes,
we have British, uh, fighters,
we have Turkish fighters,
and now we have--
Is there another one
I missed?
-Stone: Oh, really?
-Yeah, really so.
Australians?
This is--
-And Canada.
-Mm.
What about Iran?
No Iranian air force?
So, it's pretty hot
air space, I'd say.
Putin: Uh... (sighs)
You're making 72
to a 100 airstrikes a day?
Seven days a week?
-Yes. Yes.
-Wow.
And, uh... (exhales)
so there must be
some progress I would think?
We're not gonna have
a Vietnam-type situation here,
are we?
You see progress?
It seems to me
if you're striking 70
to a 120 times a day
at least two months,
that's 60 days.
We're down to four
to seven thousand strikes?
How big is ISIS?
How big is this thing?
Who's on the ground?
But they don't have
Stingers?
These people have fought
you before in Afghanistan.
Yeah.
So they were surprised?
I think it'd be a good--
It's an anti-recruitment
poster for ISIS.
You wouldn't want to join ISIS
if you saw that poster.
(Putin speaking)
Let's talk about
another war situation.
In the Crimean,
when the referendum
was coming up,
the US destroyer Donald Cook
was apparently
coming right into the Black Sea
when it made a U-turn
and didn't carry through
its mission.
It seems like it was similar
to the Cuban Missile Crisis
when the same thing happened
where a ship was coming towards
the demarcation line
and made a U-turn.
Rising tensions
between the US and Russia
after a Russian fighter jet
buzzed a US warship
in the Black Sea.
ABC Chief Global Affairs
Correspondent Martha Raddatz
is tracking this all
from Washington.
Martha, this maneuver
by the Russian fighter
carries echoes of the Cold War.
It certainly does, George.
This was a Russian jet
that screamed by
a US destroyer
in the Black Sea,
not just once
but 12 times
over a
90-minute period.
(Russian newsman speaking)
(Putin speaking)
Stone:
Yeah.
(translator speaking)
Bastion,
was it called?
Stone: But this
is a big missile.
And the destroyer,
the Donald Cook
has Tomahawk missiles.
(Putin speaking)
Stone:
That's probably why
it turned around.
But your commander had
the authority to fire.
(Putin speaking)
Stone: Still,
it's a big incident,
potentially.
What time frame did
all this take place?
This challenge?
Was he warned? Was there
a warning sent out to him?
All this thing takes place
in two minutes?
Thirty minutes?
Fifty minutes?
I mean, does this
happen all the time?
He sounds very cool.
Were you... (chuckles)
Were you contacted?
He admits to the brink.
Well, finally,
you're admitting it.
Stone: Yeah.
Yes.
At that time,
you made a speech.
"This is our historic territory.
These are Russian people.
"They are in danger now.
"We can't leave them alone.
"It wasn't us
who staged the coup,
"it was done by nationalists
"and people
with far-right views.
"You supported them.
But where do you live?
"Five thousand miles away.
"But we live here,
and it is our land.
"What do you want
to fight for there?
"You don't know, do you?
But we do know.
And we are ready for it."
Stone:
Is there any hope?
So he's an optimist.
(translator speaks)
Or Moscow will be
a caliphate.
(both laugh)
Thank you.
Well, you came close.
And now you're close again,
so it seems to be
a very tense presidency
you have.
(chuckles)
(sighs)
♪ ♪